
Lession 1:-
DATA:-
The details of an organization are represented as data.

eg:-
In a bank details are account no, customer name, balance, email id,phoneno etc. Thease data represented as data.

Organizational data:-
Since the data of an organization is huge it is needed to be managed properly.

Flat data Management Model:-
In this data is two dimession first dimesion  is record and secound dimensuion is field . A reecord is collection offields.

ANO CNAME BALANCE  EMAILID        PHONE
100 AAA   50000   aaa@gmail.com   8899990289

Observe that the data is arranged in sequential mannaer.

The data is searched in sequential manner. So it takes lot of time if data is large .so it is not suitable for bank and others companies having millions of record.

DATABASE:-
In this large of amount data is stored in table formant consisting rows and columns. Even though it is similar to flat model in two dimential format it is 
different from it because it is implemented on modern algebra topics as sets , functions,relations etc.

If the data of a bank represented as table in database it looks like this

ACCNO     CNAME   ACC_TYPE    BALANCE   EMAILD            PHONE_NO
100       AAA       SBI         50K     aaa@gmail.com    888890989
200       BBB       CA          30k     bb@gmail.com     898983786

Above representation data called mathmatical as relation.

A relation is a combination of demain sets and tuple set.

Domain sets:-
It contains all data belongs to a particular attributes of an oranizational elemets  sunch as Account in a bank.

The attributes are cname,acctype etc
Each attributes represents as one domain
Daccno=(100,101...) domain sets

The domain sets are mapped with one another using certain function such as 

1) one to one
2) one to many
3) many to one
4) Many to many

One to one
One customer have one account no

One to many
One customer having multiple account 

Many to one
multple customer having one acc type
Many customer are purchasing one product

Many to many
customers can purchase various products, and products can be purchased by many customers.

Relation Database:-
Data store in structural way i.e in table format consisting rows and column. 

Yuple sets are
T1=(100,AAA,SBI..)

Advantages of RELATIONS / TABLES:-
Two major advantages are there
1) Minimum redundancy
-->It stores data with minumum repetation of data (less duplication)

2) Quick data access
---> It is possible due to association amoung the domain set of the data.These association are implemented with the concept of indexing and hashing in gernal.
These association directly accesses the dat withount naviaging to the uneccessary rows.
eg:-
if you want SB account customers then navigating directly to those rows.

RELATIONAL DATABASE MANAGMENT(RDBMS)
It is based on relational database cocepts which is proposed by a mathmatician called Dr. E.F Codd in 1970. It is theory and it is implimented as a database 
oracle with tables in 1979 by oracle corporation.This is best and largest database in world.

Day 2 session:-

TABLE:-
Table is collection of rows and colums. Here row is nothing but tuple set and column is nothing but domain set.
oracle database is a collection of tables.

NOTES:-
Since oracle database is a trlational database and the first rule of relational database is The information. According to this rule

Relational database stores data only in one format called relation (Table) .No other format is permitted.

A table must be created with atleast one column and can be upto 1000 columns in oracle database.

SQL:-
Oracle database uses a lang called structural Ouery lang (SQL). All instruction to oracle database is given in this language only.

SQL is declarative lang and it contains commands only no programming.

NOTES:-
1)  is a case innsitive language for commands
2) It is case sensitive for data eg. eame,esal etc
3) SQL commands can be written in any no of line but it should be terminated by semicolum.

Oracle database server working env

The env contains 4 components
1) USER
2) Oracle client
3) racle databse server
4) Oracle database

Oracle clents:-
IT is interface between user and database server. Useers submit requests at client. client forward the request to database server and finally recives response
from db server after completion of execution of the submitted request.
Oracale clients are LIVESQL,SQL plus,SQL Developer etc. are supported by oracle corporation. THere are some more third party clients are also there .They are 
TOAD,PLSQL Developer, SQL Navigator etc.

Oracle user:-
These are the authporized users for connecting db with valid user id and password .There are some bult in users for oracle db.

1) Sys user (Owner of the db)
2) SYSTEM user (Administration of db)
3) Hr user (Developer)

Password are given at the time of installation.

CREATE Table command:-
It is sql command used to create a table in oracle database.
DDL (ata defination language )

CREATE TABLE table_name (
(coumn-1 data_type )size );

eg. 
CREATE TABLE Employee )
eno number (6),
Ename varchar2(20),
Gender char(1),
Salary number(9,2) );

describe tablename;   OR DESC tablename;
revivew table information
This cmd is used to return structure of the table.It displays columns,data types ans sizes.

Column	Null?	Type
ENO	 - 	NUMBER(6,0)
ENAME	 - 	VARCHAR2(20)
GENDER	 - 	CHAR(1)
SALARY	 - 	NUMBER(9,2)

storing the data into database
INSERT INTO tablename (col1,col2,col3...)
VALUE(1st value,value2,value3..);

INSERT COMMAND FOR entering partial data:-
In this values are entered into the required columns only. so ot is needed to mention the column names for inserting data
In this case, values are inserted into given colmn whearas rest of column are kept empty(NULL).

insert into Employee (eno,Ename,Gender) Values(6,'Akash','F');
here we are not inserting salary it will take null value.

SELECT:-
It is query language (OL) cmd to read to retrive data from a table.

WHERE CONDITION:-
select * from Employee where gender='M' OR Ename ='dipak';

SQL UPDATE
The SQL commands (UPDATE and DELETE) are used to modify the data that is already in the database. The SQL DELETE command uses a WHERE clause.
UPDATE table_name SET [column_name1= value1,... column_nameN = valueN] [WHERE condition]  
eg.
update Employee set gender ='M' where ename ='Akash';

DELETE COMMAND:- It removes rows from a table.

Syntax:-
DELETE FROM table_name [WHERE condition];  

















